Logstash Getting started with Kubernetes Guide (#14655)
elastic/logstash: docsk8s/quick-start/ls-k8s-configuration-files.asciidoc

[[ls-k8s-configuration-files]]
=== Logstash Configuration Files in Kubernetes

> WARNING: This documentation is still in development and may be changed or removed in a future release.

Author: This was from David's template - we talked in an earlier meeting about making it clear that the docs were incomplete, and may change

The <<ls-k8s-configuration-files,guide to {ls} configuration and settings files in Kubernetes>> guide demonstrates how to configure logstash, including pipeline configuration, in Kubernetes.

* <<qs-pipeline-configuration>>
* <<qs-logstash-yaml>>
* <<qs-jvm-options>>
* <<qs-logging>>

> Configuring Logstash includes two types of configuration files: _pipeline configuration files_, which define the Logstash processing pipeline, and _settings files_ which specify options that control Logstsah startup and execution.

Author: I think either is fine, I'm happy with your suggestion

{logstash-ref}/config-setting-files.html[Config Settings Files] contains information on these files, and this guide explains how these map to a Kubernetes configuration.

[float]
[[qs-pipeline-configuration]]
=== Pipeline Configuration

This section will explain how to configure single and multiple pipeline logstash configurations. Note that this section does not describe how to set this up using {logstash-ref}/logstash-centralized-pipeline-management.html[Centralized Pipeline Management]

[float]
[[qs-single-pipeline-config]]
==== Single Pipeline

The existing docker image contains a default `pipeline.yml`, which expects a single pipeline, with the definition of that pipeline present in `/usr/share/logstash/pipeline`, as either a single file or collection of files, typically defined as a `ConfigMap` or series of `ConfigMaps` - note that

> a single Kubernetes `ConfigMap` has a size limit of 1MB.

Author: I'll leave this suggestion hanging as a reminder to include a link

> a single Kubernetes `ConfigMap` has a size limit of 1MB.

Author: I made this a link in the latest round, please check and see if the link I used makes sense

This example contains a simple pipeline definition, with the inputs and outputs split into separate configuration files:

+
[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-pipeline <1>
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  logstash-input.conf: | <2>
    input {
      beats {
        port => "5044"
      }
    }
  logstash-output.conf: | <3>
    output {
      elasticsearch {
        hosts => ["https://demo-es-http:9200"]
      }
    }
--

<1> Name of `ConfigMap` to be referenced in `Deployment`.
<2> This will create a `ConfigMap` representing the inputs for a pipeline.
<3> This will create a `CongigMap` representing the outputs for a pipeline.

From there, you will define your `Volume` in your `Deployment` template

[source,yaml]
--
volumes:
  - name: logstash-pipeline
    configMap:
      name: logstash-pipeline
--

and mount the volume in your container

[source,yaml]
--
volumeMounts:
    - name: logstash-pipeline
      mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/pipeline
--

[float]
[[qs-multiple-pipeline-config]]
==== Multiple Pipelines

> Multiple pipelines <insert link> require a `ConfigMap` to represent pipelines.yml, where pipeline configurations can be created inline, or in separate `configMap` files or folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ls} uses the `pipelines.yml` file to define {logstash-ref}/multiple-pipelines.html[multiple pipelines]. 
{ls} in {k8s} requires a `ConfigMap` to represent the content that would otherwise be in `pipelines.yml`.
You can create pipeline configurations inline, or in separate `configMap` files or folders. 
```

> pipelines.yml `ConfigMap` with an inline pipeline definition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example: Pipelines.yml `ConfigMap` with an inline pipeline definition*
```

Reviewer: ^^ Let's try this formatting to see what it looks like.

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-pipeline-yaml <1>
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  pipelines.yml: | <2>
    - pipeline.id: test
      pipeline.workers: 1
      pipeline.batch.size: 1
      config.string: "input { generator {} } filter { sleep { time => 1 } } output { stdout { codec => dots } }"
    - pipeline.id: pipeline2 <3>
      pipeline.workers: 8
      path.config: "/usr/share/logstash/pipeline2"
--

> Pipelines can also be defined in separate files, as with the single pipeline example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example: Pipelines defined in separate files*
```

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: pipeline2
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  logstash-input.conf: |
    input {
      beats {
        port => "5044"
      }
    }
  logstash-output.conf: |
    output {
      elasticsearch {
        hosts => ["https://demo-es-http:9200"]
        index => "kube-apiserver-%{+YYYY.MM.dd}"
        cacert => "/usr/share/logstash/config/es_ca.crt"
        user => 'elastic'
        password => '${ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD}'
      }
    }
--

> Create the volume in your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`

Reviewer: I'm kicking around adding a heading here to visually distinguish this content from previous examples. That might have implications for other sections, so let's discuss.

[source,yaml]
--
volumes:
  - name: logstash-pipelines-yaml
    configMap:
      name: logstash-pipelines-yaml
  - name: pipeline2
    configMap:
      name: pipeline2
--

and mount the volume in your container spec

[source,yaml]
--
#
volumeMounts:
    - name: pipeline2
      mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/pipeline2
    - name: logstash-pipelines-yaml
      mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/pipelines.yml
      subPath: pipelines.yml

--

[float]
[[qs-settings]]

> 
> ==== Settings configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Settings configuration
```

[float]
[[qs-logstash-yaml]]

> ==== logstash.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== The logstash.yml file
```

Reviewer: I think you intend this heading to be a level below "Settings configuration?"

> Unless a configuration file is specified, the default values for logstash.yml <insert link to logstash-settings-file> will be used. To override the default values, create a `ConfigMap` with the settings that you wish to override:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless you specify a configuration file, default values for the {logstash-ref}/logstash-settings-file.html[logstash.yml file] are used. 
To override the default values, create a `ConfigMap` with the settings that you want to override:
```

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-config
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  logstash.yml: |
    api.http.host: "0.0.0.0"
    log.level: info
    pipeline.workers: 2
--

> In your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`, create the `Volume`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`, create the `Volume`:
```

[source,yaml]
--
volumes:
  - name: logstash-config
    configMap:
      name: logstash-config
--

> Create the `volumeMount` in the `container`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `volumeMount` in the `container`:
```

[source,yaml]
--
  volumeMounts:
    - name: logstash-config
      mountPath: /usr/share/logstash/config/logstash.yml
      subPath: logstash.yml
--

[float]
[[qs-jvm-options]]

> ==== JVM Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== JVM options
```

> JVM settings are best set using environment variables to override the default settings in `jvm.options`. This ensures that the expected settings from `jvm.options` are set, and only those options that explicitly need to be overriden are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JVM settings are best set using environment variables to override the default settings in `jvm.options`. 
This approach ensures that the expected settings from `jvm.options` are set, and only those options that explicitly need to be overridden are.
```

The JVM settings should be added in the `LS_JAVA_OPTS` environment variable in the container definition of your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`:

[source,yaml]
--
spec:
  containers:
    - name: logstash
      env:
        - name: LS_JAVA_OPTS
          value: "-Xmx2g -Xms2g"
--

[float]
[[qs-logging]]

> ==== Logging Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Logging configuration
```

> By default, we use the `log4j2.properties` from the logstash docker image, that will log to `stdout` only. To change the log level, to use debug logging, use the `log.level` option in <<qs-logstash-yaml, logstash.yml>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, we use the `log4j2.properties` file from the {ls} Docker image, which logs to `stdout` only. To change the log level, to use debug logging, use the `log.level` option in <<qs-logstash-yaml, logstash.yml>>.
```

Reviewer: It's kinda weird that a link called `logstash-yml` links takes you to the topic in the LSR sometimes and to a topic in this document sometimes.  Let's discuss how to demystify that behavior for the user to provide more context.

Author: There are two different sets of `logstash.yml` content that I'd like to link to - one is how to define it in the context of kubernetes, and the other is the original `logstash.yml` docs, that show the settings. Maybe we don't need to do both, or maybe I'm misunderstanding the question...

Reviewer: It's OK to link to both if we need to, but we need to disambiguate.  We don't want users to click links with identical link text, and land in two completely different books.

> Temporary logging changes can be applied using the {logstash-ref}/logging.html#_logging_apis[Logging APIs], but if you require broader changes that will persist across container restarts, you will need to create a *full* and correct `log4j2.properties` and ensure that it is visible to the logstash container. This example uses a `configMap`, and uses the base `log4j2.properties` file from the docker container, adding debug logging for elasticsearch output plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: You can apply temporary logging changes using the {logstash-ref}/logging.html#_logging_apis[Logging APIs]. 
If you require broader changes that persist across container restarts, you need to create a *full* and correct `log4j2.properties` file, and ensure that it is visible to the {ls} container. 

This example uses a `configMap` and the base `log4j2.properties` file from the Docker container, adding debug logging for elasticsearch output plugins:
```

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logstash-log4j
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  log4j2.properties: |
    status = error
    name = LogstashPropertiesConfig

    appender.console.type = Console
    appender.console.name = plain_console
    appender.console.layout.type = PatternLayout
    appender.console.layout.pattern = [%d{ISO8601}][%-5p][%-25c]%notEmpty{[%X{pipeline.id}]}%notEmpty{[%X{plugin.id}]} %m%n

    appender.json_console.type = Console
    appender.json_console.name = json_console
    appender.json_console.layout.type = JSONLayout
    appender.json_console.layout.compact = true
    appender.json_console.layout.eventEol = true

    rootLogger.level = ${sys:ls.log.level}
    rootLogger.appenderRef.console.ref = ${sys:ls.log.format}_console
    logger.elasticsearchoutput.name = logstash.outputs.elasticsearch
    logger.elasticsearchoutput.level = debug
--

> In your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`, create the `Volume`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your `Deployment`/`StatefulSet`, create the `Volume`:
```

[source,yaml]
--
volumes:
        - name: logstash-log4j
          configMap:
            name: logstash-log4j
--

> Create the `volumeMount` in the `container`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `volumeMount` in the `container`:
```

    app: logstash-demo
data:
  pipelines.yml: | <2>
    - pipeline.id: test <3>
      pipeline.workers: 1
      pipeline.batch.size: 1
      config.string: "input { generator {} } filter { sleep { time => 1 } } output { stdout { codec => dots } }"
    - pipeline.id: pipeline2 <4>
      pipeline.workers: 8
      path.config: "/usr/share/logstash/pipeline2"
--
<1> Name of `ConfigMap` to be referenced in `Deployment`.
<2> Defines a `pipelines.yml` `ConfigMap`.
<3> Defines a pipeline inside the `pipelines.yml`.
<4> Defines a pipeline, and a location where the pipeline definitions are stored. See below for these pipeline definitions.

*Example: Pipelines defined in separate files*

[source,yaml]
--
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: pipeline2
  labels:
    app: logstash-demo
data:
  logstash-input.conf: |
    input {
      beats {
        port => "5044"
      }
    }
  logstash-output.conf: |
    output {
      elasticsearch {
        hosts => ["https://demo-es-http:9200"]
        index => "kube-apiserver-%{+YYYY.MM.dd}"
        cacert => "/usr/share/logstash/config/es_ca.crt"
        user => 'elastic'
        password => '${ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD}'
      }
    }
--

> ===== Make pipelines available to Logstash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[float]
[[expose-pipelines]]
===== Make pipelines available to Logstash
```
